going back again to the sense houses
here only fifty pounds each or fifty
dollars each and you can put a load of
houses on quickly and therefore these
sets are also useful for hoarding houses
legitimately and then when you want to
put them onto perhaps a more useful
stroke devastating set over here pinks
and oranges you can take them from your
blues if if there's a housing shortage
in the game and that's a very valid way
of going about the game he's not going
to hotels staying on the four houses and
stopping other people building up so
that you've always got the lead in the
biggest weapon if you like in terms of
the biggest cost to land on you so it's
about timing it's about trying to gain
first with that big weapon and then it's
trying to stop other people get in it's
unlikely you're going to be able to do
that alone and that is why the diplomacy
and the trading skills are paramount but
walking around still so the 50s down
here easy to build on the hundreds are
also relatively easy to build on now
you'd think the upper row here in the
British board is Trafalgar Square the
red sets and Piccadilly leading the
yellow and one hundred and fifty you'd
think that isn't that much harder to get
going and put three houses on each up
there but it really is in practice
because this game is a game of inertia
and you have to try and do enough with
the cheaper side of the board to pay for
some think a bit more exotic up here and
down here so ie I would so much more
rather build here preferably here I like
it down here I try to avoid these two
though just because I wasn't aware of
those percentages before I started
looking at this but just from playing
practice now we're working our way
around now the greens
okay the stats might say that they've
relatively popular I don't know how that
is it I don't know how that's true
because in the games that I've played
they rarely win the game they're so
expensive to put money on that you're
absolutely begging for people to land on
you if that's your only hope in the game
very difficult to win with the greens
now statistically it's difficult to win
with these but the thing about these
that offsets them slightly and again I
come back to the chess analogy where
sometimes it's worth gambling and if you
make the hits it's so devastating that
they can't come back in chess you might
call that a gamble you give a bit away
in order to give them an overwhelming
have an overwhelming attack well your
attack in monopoly comes through the
amount it costs to land on your property
so why would you make that decision on
to properties I'm trying to fish them
out here as I talk that's our only
landed on a quarter of the time well
this is where it comes down to timing I
want to talk about timing in
negotiations in a bit
but let's just have a look at these for
a second now even with the two houses
here it's 500 and 600 to land on them
that would be a total of investment of
800 to do that because the houses are
200 each that's a very big investment
but in weighing up these decisions you
want to have a look at what is the devil
how much devastation can you cause on
that particular opponent or opponents if
they're coming round to your property so
that might be the time to gamble and
that is usually the time I try and build
in fact it's usually the time I try and
all
is getting a set you need to think about
whose turn it is next when you you go to
negotiate you see what often happens in
a game of relatively equal strength
these people are building up the
building up and there's not really any
trading going and then suddenly
everybody's ready to trade because as
soon as they see somebody's going to get
a set they all start panicking so you
can get these myths trades five-way
trades even and I pity the sixth person
late left out of that we tend to play
with the full six player game so this
basically is talking about four player
upwards the ideas I'm giving you here
you'd probably want to temper that for a
two or three player game that's outside
the scope for this particular series
anyway so you'll find that there's these
max trades so if if you can see that a
number of people are I'm just picking on
something fairly random here yes that
that's a perfect example down here with
the pinks I find me the pace before if
you can see that they're coming round
and the six to eight area is here or
even maybe that's seven and eights there
for more than one player you've got
really great odds then to actually get a
killing in and perhaps give yourself
enough wiggle room if you like to go for
broke and really punish them when they
land on there the standard theory if you
like ghosts that you want to get up to
the three houses as quick as possible
and I should use the light blues as an
example here forgive me I'm on a tripod
and there's no zoom here as if this
comes in I can read that and it's going
out on one OIT
standard so hopefully that's readable
for you you can see there the two houses
is ninety or hundreds but the three
houses is wacked three times bigger the
difference between three or four houses
is a lot less pronounced
as it is between four houses in a hotel
so the standard theory is you got two
three but again that can be tempered by
two things as mentioned before if you
think well if you can see that a load of
people are coming round you manage to
negotiate let's say on the turn before
your turn or on your turn so that you
have very little dodging to do yourself
before you can whack on the houses then
it might be worth going for broke and
going above the three houses to really
to really hurt the other people who who
may well have planned ahead to buy
houses themselves and you will deny them
the chance of doing that because they'll
have to pay for that out of the money
they held back for that